----INSTALLATION OVERVIEW---------------------------

I.	General Requirements
II.	Installing from OS Specific Packages
III.	Installing from General Linux/Unix Binary Packages
IV.	Creating a Database and User Account
V.	Troubleshooting Installation Issues
----------------------------------------------------

I. General Requirements  

    -  MySQL server 5.1 or greater
    -  MySQL DBI driver module for PERL (available at CPAN)
    -  Unix/Linux or MacOS 10.0.1 or greater

----------------------------------------------------
II. Installing MYSQL from OS Specific Packages

MySQL has pre-packaged installation suites for many operating systems (RPM, Solaris or MacOS 
pkg, etc). To determine if packages have been created for your operating system, check 
http://www.mysql.com/downloads. Click the "Current Release" link under the MySQL  Community 
Server heading (MySQL 5.1 as of this writing). If packages exist specific to your operating system,   
these packages provide the quickest method of installing the MySQL server, but please note that the 
installation directory will vary from OS to OS unless it is explicitly specified when installing the 
package, and default directory installations may require administrator privileges. Refer to the 
documentation for your operating system for instructions regarding OS specific package installation.

----------------------------------------------------
III. Installing MySQL From Linux/Unix Binary Packages

- If you do not wish to use OS packages, or you need to install MySQL from a normal user account,      
  you can install MySQL using the following steps:


   1. Change to your home directory (cd ~/), or to the directory in which you want to install MySQL. 
      Note that you will need full privileges to the directory in which you install MySQL.

   2. Download the MySQL binary package to the directory you specified in Step 1. This package 
      can be obtained from http://www.mysql.com/downloads/; click the "Current Release" option 
      under MySQL Community Server (MySQL 5.1 as of this writing). On the download page, 
      select "Linux Non RPM packages" if you are running Linux, or otherwise the .tar package for your 
      operating system. Make sure you select the download file that is appropriate for your 
      architecture (32 or 64 bit).

   3. Unzip the downloaded file into the directory:
  
		tar -xzvf mysql-standard-5.1.34-linux-i686-glibc23.tar.gz

   4. A subdirectory will be created with the full name of the MySQL version. For simplicity, create a  
      symbolic link to the mysql directory:

	 	ln -s mysql-standard-5.1.34-linux-i686-glibc23 mysql

   5. Set up the default MySQL databases:

	        cd mysql
                ./scripts/mysql_install_db
    
        NOTE: The script will most likely inform that you that need to set a root password. 
              Don't worry about this for now; you will perform this task in another step.

   6. Move or copy to your home directory the included mysql.cnf file. Edit this
      file to reflect your mysql installation, or create your own with a text editor 
      using our included file as a guide. This file is necessary to specify the correct 
      mysql directories upon startup, and to optimize server settings.

      Please we aware of the importance of the MySQL data directory! This
      directory is essential and resides in the MySQL home directory by default. It 
      houses the MySQL core databases, as well as the database(s) that you create, 
      thus it is very possible that this directory will be quite large in
      size. Please take this under consideration, and if the volume on which your
      data directory currently resides is small, you should copy or move your mysql/data
      directory to a volume with sufficient capacity. Make sure you specify the path to 
      this relocated directory via the "datadir" parameter in your mysql.cnf
      file.

   7. You are now ready to start your MySQL server as a background process. To do so, from within the mysql 
      directory base install, run:

           ./bin/mysqld_safe --defaults-file=~/mysql.cnf &
        
         NOTE: You *must* run this command from the mysql directory.
               You should see something similar to the following:

 		[1] 67786% Starting mysqld daemon with databases from home/youraccountname/mysql/data

   8. At this point your MySQL password is still blank. Use the following command to set a new                     
      root password:

		./bin/mysqladmin -u root password "yourpasswordhere"

--------------------------------------------------
IV. Create a New Database and User Account

   1. Log in to your mysql server as root. If you are logging in to an existing MySQL server, 
      use any existing account that can create a user and grant privileges: 

		./bin/mysql -u root -p

      Enter the password you set in Step 7 when prompted.

   2. Once logged in as root, create the database and user (schema) that you will use for OrthoMCL
      (we use orthomcl as an example here), and grant the user account the necessary privileges:
 
              mysql> CREATE DATABASE orthomcl;
	
	      mysql> GRANT SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,CREATE VIEW,CREATE, INDEX, DROP on orthomcl.* TO orthomcl@localhost;
	
 	      mysql> set password for orthomcl@localhost = password('yourpassword');


 TODO: ADD TROUBLESHOOTING SECTION     

          
	    

		
 




